Add XDR and JSON conversion schema (#820)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/learn/encyclopedia/data-format/xdr.mdx

## .X files

Data structures in XDR are specified in an interface definition file (IDL). The IDL files used for the Stellar Network are available on [GitHub](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-xdr).

## JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

The canonical JSON and XDR Schema is defined by the [stellar-xdr crate](https://docs.rs/stellar-xdr) and also exposed by the [@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web). The schema provides a round-trippable means for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.

This conversion is visible in the Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, and Hubble events table.

### Key Characteristics of the JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

- **Round-Trippable:** The JSON format allows for converting from XDR to JSON and back to XDR without loss of information.
- **Self-Describing:** The JSON format describes the internals of the type but does not identify the type that is encoded. This is similar to XDR, which also does not identify the encoded type.

> :::info[backwards-incompatible]

Reviewer: I think this can be a warning.
```suggestion
:::warn[backwards-incompatible]
```

In addition, the Horizon API server generally exposes the most important parts of the XDR data in JSON, so they are easier to parse if you are not using an SDK. The XDR data is still included (encoded as a base64 string) inside the JSON in case you need direct access to it.

## JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

> :::info
> 
> SDF has published libraries which support the canonical and round-trippable conversion from XDR to JSON, and from JSON to XDR, without loss of information.
> 
> :::
> 

Reviewer: The info block here can probably be dropped. SDF publishes a lot of things so calling that out isn't particularly impactful.
```suggestion
```

> The canonical JSON and XDR Schema is defined by the [stellar_xdr crate](https://docs.rs/stellar-xdr/21.1.0/stellar_xdr/index.html) and by the [@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A canonical JSON XDR Schema is defined by the [stellar-xdr crate](https://docs.rs/stellar-xdr/21.1.0/stellar_xdr/index.html) and also exposed by the [@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web).
```

Reviewer: It's not obvious from the URL, but the crate name is actually hyphenated and due to how dependencies work in the Rust ecosystem they're always expressed in code with an underscore, but actually the identifier with the hyphen is important because if you try and import the underscore version it won't work.

Reviewer 2: Ah thanks :+1: wasn't sure about the convention

This conversion is visible in the Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, and Hubble events table. The schema provides a round-trippable means for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.

> 

Reviewer: We should add a note how the schema is not backwards compatible from one protocol version to a prior, and therefore it is always best to store data in XDR.

Reviewer 3: Does [ac63218](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/820/commits/ac632186e70ac8662292609900709600a67b0b3b) convey this well enough, or does it need some more work?

Author: Looks good thanks @ElliotFriend

### Key Characteristics of the JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

- Round-Trippable: The JSON format allows for converting from XDR to JSON and back to XDR without loss of information.

- Self-Describing: The JSON format describes the internals of the type but does not identify the type that is encoded. This is similar to XDR, which also does not identify the encoded type.

> - Single Valid Representation: For any given XDR, there is a single valid JSON representation, and vice-versa. This ensures reproducibility and consistency.

Reviewer: We can't actually guarantee this for every XDR object yet. It's a WIP, but is achievable.

Author: Should I remove this then? It's a design goal but not a guarantee.

Reviewer 3: I'm struggling with the best course of action here. Should we remove the "Single Valid Representation" line from here, or would it be better to add a caveat to that line?

Reviewer 2: imo we should make sure docs are accurate as of the day they're published rather than mentioning future goals or upcoming features - those things can be announced when they happen through different channels

Reviewer 3: that's what my gut was saying, too. Thanks for confirming

Reviewer: It should be removed.

## .X files

> Data structures in XDR are specified in an interface definition file (IDL). The IDL files used for the Stellar Network are available on [GitHub](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-xdr).

Reviewer: We should move the section about the .X files to the top. The definitions and source of truth for the XDR should be the first thing on this page imo, with ways to access that information following after it.

Reviewer 3: Really great idea!

Reviewer 3: I took a stab at fixing this in [74fe590](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/820/commits/74fe590f650ecefd178a86affcf5c39854517e20), does that fit what you had in mind?

Author: Looks good thanks @ElliotFriend

In addition, the Horizon API server generally exposes the most important parts of the XDR data in JSON, so they are easier to parse if you are not using an SDK. The XDR data is still included (encoded as a base64 string) inside the JSON in case you need direct access to it.

> [Upcoming Feature] For the Soroban RPC, API endpoints will provide JSON format to unpack XDR base64 strings as long as a flag for `xdrFormat: "json"` is passed to the endpoints.

Reviewer 2: Can we just add this when it's ready :joy: :pray:

Author: Okie dokie

## JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

:::info

SDF has published libraries which support the canonical and round-trippable conversion from XDR to JSON, and from JSON to XDR, without loss of information.

:::

> The canonical JSON and XDR Schema is defined by the [rs-stella-xdr library](https://github.com/stellar/rs-stellar-xdr) and by the [@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web) npm package.

Reviewer 2: nit, typo:

```suggestion
The canonical JSON and XDR Schema is defined by the [rs-stellar-xdr library](https://github.com/stellar/rs-stellar-xdr) and by the [@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stellar/stellar-xdr-json-web) npm package.
```

You can also call it the "`stellar_xdr` crate" and link to the [Rust docs](https://docs.rs/stellar-xdr/21.1.0/stellar_xdr/index.html) which might be a little more accessible.

Author: Good catch thanks

> This conversion is visible in the output/input of Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, Soroban RPC, and Hubble events table. The schema provides a round-trippable mean for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.

Reviewer 2: not yet :shushing_face: 

```suggestion
This conversion is visible in the output/input of Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, and Hubble events table. The schema provides a round-trippable mean for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.
```

Also only output for a lot of these, right? Not input/output.

> This conversion is visible in the output/input of Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, Soroban RPC, and Hubble events table. The schema provides a round-trippable mean for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This conversion is visible in the output/input of Stellar CLI, Laboratory View XDR, Soroban RPC, and Hubble events table. The schema provides a round-trippable means for converting any Stellar XDR type to JSON and converting that JSON back to the identical XDR.
```

### Key Characteristics of the JSON and XDR Conversion Schema

- Round-Trippable: The JSON format allows for converting from XDR to JSON and back to XDR without loss of information.

> - Self-Describing: The JSON format describes itself within the type but does not identify the type that is encoded. This is similar to XDR, which also does not identify the encoded type.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: rewording for clarity 

```suggestion
- Self-Describing: The JSON format describes the internals of the type but does not identify the type that is encoded. This is similar to XDR, which also does not identify the encoded type.
```

> - Single Valid Representation: For any given XDR, there is a single valid JSON representation, and vice-versa. This ensures reproducibility and consistency. However, there are some exceptions.

Reviewer 2: We should elaborate on the exceptions?

Author: I can link to the issue

Author: Actually that issue is closed. Updating

## .X files

> Data structures in XDR are specified in an interface definition file (IDL). The IDL files used for the Stellar Network are available on [GitHub](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core/tree/master/src/protocol-curr/xdr).

Reviewer 2: Can you update this link while you're at it? I think it should point to https://github.com/stellar/stellar-xdr

Author: For sure
